## Timeline

Ben Stokes Innings Graph - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ECQqz0mBnA&ab_channel=TheAnalyst @ 2:45

###  Goals for the video

We want to explore why Kohli is not scoring runs. This video will then go into details and try to find the possible solution. The aim of the video will be to explore with the watcher, the potential reasons behind Kohli's lack of form in test matches. We want to go through the following reason as to why Kohli's game has been affected.

#### Good Form
First we should open the video with Kohli's good form. For this we will present Kohli's good form period that we calculated and show that it was an unprecedented good period for Kohli. To prove this we can show that Kohli is above other batsman for an extended period. 

**Graphs**
Graph that shows extended consistency and possibly adjusted average over 80 innings. The X-axis will be Average, the y axis is still a mystery because we have no other advance stats to measure batsman. The Y axis I have put as win probability, because I want to show that Kohli has scored runs and contributed to wins. Obviously this is not a direct indication, but if the batsman is scoreing runs, and the team is winning, there surely must be some sort of correlation.

Graph to show best batsman averages after 80 innings. Kohli is 6th/8th on this list.
    -So we have a graph that shows that Kohli is has the 6th highest total runs in a 80 match period. 
    -Can we make Kohli top if we consider team win percentage in this time? This would show that Kohli influenced team wins

Graph to show cover drive scoring rate over career and over an inning.
    - I think we made this graph, but basically we want to see if the scoring rate off the cover drive changes based on when Kohli is in strike and not in strike, etc. In general we had seen that this is not the case. Kohli's strike rate and frequency of playing the cover drive does not change based the number of runs he scored in an innings. So basically we can kind of conclude that Kohli does not really adapt his game based on how he is playing. He backs himself to play the cover drive no matter what and hit it. But actually this mentality is not good. Maybe overall strikerate is something that dips for Kohli? If thats the case then maybe we can see if it is the rate of him scoring off of other shots dipping that causes Kohli to play a cover drive at the wrong deliveries and fail as a result.

Career strike rates for each inning. So for each inning we can calculate the cumulative strike rate and then graph all of these, see if there is a dip at the start of Kohli's innings in and out of form.
    - Ok, so we calculated this and we can conclude that Kohli actually has a lower strike rate overall from his innings recenttly when he has been out of form. Though his cover drive play frequency remains the same. We can therefore conclude that Kohli is not hitting them as well, or he is missing out on getting runs from other shots. This culminates in him possibly playing a rash shot to get out. So the main things to check as a result of this "finding" are:
        - Is Kohli scoring less off of his cover drives
        - Is Kohli getting out more frequently to cover drives
        - What shot is Kohli struggling wrt strikerate
        - Do other batsman also have a dip in scoring rate in this period

Graphs to show average of indian batsman over career

Graph to show number of matches played by Kohli compared to other players

Need to develop a way to measure shot effectiveness, dot balls over runs scored, or attempts, or something like that



Reasons that will be explored in the Video:
1. 




# Full script
------------

## Introduction

Cricket is a game of many unknowns. On each ball, we as fans stay on the edges of our seats wondering what is to come. Every has the potential to be a match defining event. We can see the batsman impose himself, crunching the bowler authoritatively to the boundary rope, or the bowler hit back, with a ripping delivery, sending the batsman's stumps, and confidence, spiralling away.

For a batsman, this nature of the game is even harsher. On any day, the same delivery that takes the edge, can either nestle into the safe hands of a waiting slip, or just as easily race past gully for a welcome boundary to get their innings underway. This is why many say cricket is a very harsh game, a true representation of the challenges and hardships one might expect to see in their own lifes. But like in life, in cricket, there come along players that seem to defy this uncertainty, players that seem to be playing in their own bubble, as if the game is to them just a hobby, and no one exemplified this more than Virat Kohli, especially between the years of 2015-2019

In this period Kohli was one of the most dominating and consistent(thesaurus) batsman in world cricket. Though his true dominance was in limited overs cricket, where arguably you would trust Kohli with your life to chase nearly any total, in test cricket, Kohli had a historically good run of form. In terms of runs, Kohli is in the top 15 for most runs in an 80 innings stretch. Furthermore, he dominated with these runs, he consistently scored hundreds away from home, which especially for a subcontinent player, is a true measure of their greatness, and was feared by nearly every opposing team that played India in this period. The aura of Kohli was further strengthened by the fact that Kohli's runs contributed to Indian wins. His aggressive batting mirrored his captaincy and subsequently team India has a whole, taking them from a pushover team, to one that was feared worldwide (not to mention that it allowed India's fast bowlers to thrive). In this historically outstanding period of batting, Kohli's scoring output fuelled India to strongholding every series at home, and push for test and series wins consistently away from home, something that India hadnt done before that point. If we consider the percetage of test wins during his period of scoring, we can see that Kohli is in elite company. 6th on the list only headed by the creme de la creme of test batting. Kohli was all but secured to be a batting great. 

But then the fire-nation attacked. 

India had gone to Australia to mount a challenge for a historic series win, in the first test at the Adelaide Oval, a ground where Kohli makes runs for fun, he was batting serenely on 70-odd when this happened. There must have been some magic spell on the ball, because along with Kohli's wicket, this runout also snatched Kohli's form. Since this innings, Kohli has only scored 872 runs in 32 innings at an average of just 27.25. Considering the 32 innings prior, Kohli scored 1748 runs at an average of 58.26 Compared to the Lofty hieghts he had reached just before this time. Kohli now was a shadow of himself. Runs were not flowing, India lost multiple away series, and everything culminated in Kohli stepping down from captaincy. 

But what seemed to happen to case this loss of form? For the level of player Kohli was, this type of form loss was unprecedented. He was scoring well below his average (can we get numbers for this form slump? Longest period for a batsman scoring below their test average?), and didn't look at all like his former self. No confident play, and no runs. Every analyst and commentator seemed to have an opinion on Kohli's play, and what Kohli should do to resolve the issue. But what caused Kohli's slump in the first place? How could such a prolific batsman, one of the all time greats of our generation suddenly struggle to reproduce the scoring that once came to him so easily?

## Coverdrive
#### Technical Analysis

Good cover drives:
 - plays with hands away from body
 - weight is generally forward
 - plays ball under eyes, generally, not always <-- Main point
 - Compact follow through
 - Biggg front foot step
 - Line of ball varies from 5th to 7th stump line
 - Tend to be later in his innings
 - bat perpendicular to ground

Bad cover drives
 - Weight not tranferred forward
 - uncontrolled post shot
 - head still moving to the off as he plays
 - Not a big foot movement
 - line is waaaay outside off.
 Basically, if Kohli reaches for the ball, he gets out. If all the things go right, foot movement, bat controlled follow through, weight transfer and head moving in straight lines with bat face, then he plays the cover drive well.

**Compilation Video**
0:21 - On contact hands away from body, weight back, 7th stump line, head straight, plays under eyes though, score 65. After contact good weight transfer

0:45 - On contact, hands close to body, played under eyes, weight forward, 5th stump line, score 26, After contact, compact, good weight transfer

0:58 - On contact, played to spin, hands really far from body, head forward, weight forward, score 119

One of the first culprits that people always pointed to was Kohli's cover drive. Kohli's cover drive has always been a topic of much discussion. Is it actually a good shot for him? When he hits the drive well, Kohli's coverdrive is definitely a demoralizing shot, the ball races to the boundary and Kohli seems to be able to take the ball from any lenght and nearly any line outside off and dispatch it to the boundary, but this is precisely the issue. When Kohli's drive is not on song, he seems to reccurringly get out to it, playing at balls way away from his body and edging them to the slips. Fittingly, only further strengthening this narrative, Kohli's run of bad form started with a waft well outside the off stump to a full delivery, edging to a waiting gully. 

From a technical perspective, this makes sense. When Kohli is in form, his balance of weight and hand-eye coordination allow him to adjust to any movement in the ball and play his coverdrive with greater consistency and less risk. It follows then, that when Kohli is out of form, the slight hesitance which results from a batsman looking for runs, as well as any technical defficiency that creeps in, may mean that Kohli is not able to adjust to the moving ball as well. Furthermore, a big contributing factor could be that Kohli is looking to dominate more, and so he is playing riskier cover drives then he would when he is in form. 

On good cover drives Kohli plays really late and makes his movements fast and as late as possible, that allows him to get a better stride to the ball and adjust for swing etc. On his bad cover drives, his foot is planted really early, this means that the ball can move a lot once it pitches and Kohli cannot really adjust. This is definitely a form thing. We always hear the phrases 'He's seeing the ball well', or 'Hes playing under his eyes', or 'He looks like he has so much time' and these cricket cliches point to the idea that when you are in form, you keep your head still and sight the ball as long as possible before reacting, rather than premeditating or 'searching' for a shot as you would do when out of form. So though we see this technical defficiancy in his cover drive game, which makes him susceptible to it when times are not good, by looking at just the data, there are mixed identifiers to suggest that Kohli is sufferring from the cover drive blip. 

We can see that Kohli seems to keep up generally the same frequency of playing the cover drive, and if anything, the frequency has actually dropped a little bit in his time out of form rather than going up. This suggests that Kohli may actually realize he is not in form and as a result is taking less risks in terms of playing attacking strokes. This can also be seen from the run scoring perspective, where he seems to be scoring a lot less runs off of each of those cover drives. This coincides with a trough where the average runs from each cover drive is also lower, aloing with the frequency of the drives themselves. So Kohli went through a period where he was scoring less of his runs from cover drives, but the lack of frequency and fluency lets call it, also indicate that he was struggling to hit any drives he was playing well for runs and potentially he was also being cautious of playing such expansive strokes, generally being more defensive. This idea is supported by looking at the coverdrive comms from this period, we can see that in general he seems to be playing and missing, or just being defensive. Unfortuantely for Kohli though if we compare this to his overall career, he is not playing and missing any more than he normally would. Throughout Kohli's career, he gets out to the cover drive a lot, and nearly 18% of the time, he plays and misses a cover drive, and this has actually come down in his out of form era. So though Kohli does play the cover drive and scores lots from it, there is still a videos worth of deep dive that we can go through to actually analyze if this is a good shot for him or not. Furthermore, the data indicates that this period of low frequency rebounded, but his form is yet to return. So though there is some validity to the claim that Kohli's drives are the issue (as they have been throughout his career), they do not explain the whole story for sure. There seems to be more to Kohli's bad form than just his coverdrives not working well for him.
 
# Loss of fluency

So we are saying that there is not a big difference in Kohli's cover drive effectiveness? What is causing his issues then? Why is he not looking like the same player? The eye-test has to count for something right?

Well in this channel we are gonna try to be data-driven, but yes, there is something off with Kohli, and that something is fluency. We briefly touched on this in our cover drive deep dive, but Kohli looks less fluent in his innings of late. He looks like he's searching for runs and being tentative, and this is something that (luckily for us) does turn up in the data. If we plot Kohli's strike rate throughout his innings, we can get an idea of how Kohli scores as his innings progresses. For certain players like Root and Stokes, this graph looks a bit exponential, this means they accelerate throughout their innings. If we do this for Kohli, we can see that he is a very consistent scorer. He consistently scores at a strikerate of 60 throughout his innings, no matter the length. This cadence of Kohli's innings is definitely something that we as fans have gotten used to. We expect that Kohli doesn't get bogged down. He doesnt accelerate either, but he consistently cumulates runs at a pretty good clip for test matches. This is not the case for when he has been out of form however. We can see that Kohli has been scoring at a significantly lower pace. he's being more watchful and trusting his instincts less. 

This is clearly seen if we plot Kohli's dot ball percentage throughout his innings. Right around the time where his form drops off, we can see a significant plateau in the number of dot balls that he is facing. Furthermore, this almost perfectly coincides with a drop in frequency of cover drives AND flicks for Kohli. Taking all this into consideration, I dont think it is a very bold claim to say that Kohli is missing out on his fluency.

Under normal circumstances, Kohli's innings are riddled with quick singles, doubles and a healthy smattering of boundaries, he is not ever reliant on the boundary balls. During his loss of forms, the singles are the aspect of his game that majorly dropped off, whereas his dot ball percentage increased significantly. This means that Kohli isnt rotating the strike as much and as a result facing longer strings of balls as the striker. You hear it time and time again, dot balls bring pressure, and when the scoreboard stops ticking, batsman start to try and manufacture shots, and this is what we see with Kohli. After being stuck on the crease, Kohli tries to release the pressure, in Kohli's case, by playing an expansive coverdrive, and this results in him inadvertently playing a shot out of control and being dismissed. (Maybe look at the average length of a string of balls Kohli faces consecutively before scoring, or slightly easier, the average number of dot balls faced per scoring shot)
By scoring slowly, Kohli is losing the fluency that characterizes his game. But for such a good player, why has he lost this fluency? Why has Kohli been playing slower?


The loss of fluency in a player's batting is usually a clear indicator of a slump of bad form. In many cases, players tend to become more watchful in the hope that they will end up playing less false strokes and as a
### End of Career Slump

Batsman, even the best, sometimes go through bad periods of form. Cricket is a game with fine margins and lots of opportunities in an innings to both succeed and fail, and therefore it is expected that batsman will go through periods of great highs, followed by lows, but eventually, for great batsman, such as Virat Kohli, a drought of runs is quickly ended with a large score and a period of rich form. Many times form comes and goes, small changes to technique that go unnoticed until they are large enough to require fixing, difficult conditions that are not suited to a players style, or even periods of simple bad luck, all are common causes to batsmans' drops in form. 

We have briefly gone through an analysis of Kohli's cover drives, and technique has been playing a part in Kohli's recent run of low form. However, we also saw that Kohli's cover drives have always been a problematic area for him. Though we always say things like "a player of his class is always due for a big score", sometimes a slump of form could be a lot more indicitive of inevitible underlying issue, age. Due to batting being such a reactionary activity, when a player gets older, a slow down of reaction times just goes to accentuate and expose any deficiencies in technique that a player may posses. This is evident with a number of batsman in test cricket, many of the times, their output tends to decline before they are either forced into retirement or dropped. We can see this clearly with batsman such as Ross Taylor, you can see a clear decline in his performance over the end of their career. With Ross it was recurring eye issues that seemed to reappear that made it harder for him to pick up the ball. In cases such as his, a final hurrah is never realized, and the drop in form remains a constant until they are almost forced to retire or be dropped. A case could be made that what we have been seeing from Kohli that his struggle for form is an end of career slump for him. We can see that in the test format, there has been a significant and consistent drop off in output from him, and like players such as Ross Taylor, Ian Bell, and even his peers in Jinx and Pujara, we can see a similar end of career slump shape to their careers. For many of the players listed above, we had seen a continued decline in form until their eventual retirements or disinclusion from the side. 

A few things are on Kohli's side here however. Kohli has not really had an uptick or change in his dismissal modes. Normally when a player gets older or out of form, we may see that certain aspects of their game that they got away with before, are now more oftern resulting in their dismissal. (See if this is the case with any of the above). Secondly, Kohli is one of the fittest cricketers the world has seen, and so considering the physical shape that Kohli strives to be in, it would be very surprising if his age/drop off in physicality? were the main culprits of his downfall. Finally, barring the times Kohli has been getting out to the cover drive, an analysis of his dismissals points to a slightly 'unlucky' trend. Kohli seems to be consistently getting out to the other teams best bowlers, and if not, he gets out in unlucky ways. A very good article written by X at cricinfo points to how in his slump, Kohli has actually been getting out after playing fewer false shots then normal. That means, in a normal innings, where Kohli might get away with a waft of the bat here or there, in his slump, he seems to be nicking the ball instead and being dimissed. It is interesting to see though, that though age seems to contribute to a decline in form for many batsman, the game's "greats" tend not to be affected as much as the average player. If we graph the careers of the top 50 batsman, then we can see that many of them don't see a significant decrease in performance or output at all until their last innings, especially not to the scale of Kohli. Considering Kohli's relatively good form through this period in ODIs and T20s, we can conclude that though age may play some factor in Kohli's lack of form, it probably isn't the sole, or even majority reason for Kohli's woes. 

Many of these methods are resolved by themselves, or through brute force, such as Sachin's stoic 241 in Sydney, but sometimes a drop of form is indicitive of something more permanent. 

<!-- The case with Virat though doesnt fit this model for two reasons. 1. Kohli still scored a lot of runs in limited overs cricket during this period. Though still not up to his personal standards, he still managed to score consistently in both T20 and ODI cricket. There seemed to be no real drop in form in either of these formats. 2. If we try to apply this same 'theory' to the great batsman of the game, which Kohli certianly is in the thick of, we see that many of them actually haven't experienced this down trod of form prior to their retirements, they always seemed to find a way to adapt their skills, and other than the slight change in technique we saw earlier with Kohli's cover drive, he doesnt seem to be getting beaten or bowled any more often that he did in his early days. (Lets confirm this). 


but because of their historically good performances for their country, and in general, their establishement as a 'legend' of the countries batting departement, they are kept in the team long after their peak as a player. -->

Alastair Cook's initial drop of form coincides with his time as captain. Joe Root, also has a worse conversion rate while he was captain as compared to not. The captaincy definitely plays a part as it adds extra scrutiny on a team, especially when they are not doing well. This is not the case with Kohli and Smith as much, because thier team does not solely depend on them to perform to do well, as so their batting is not tied to their captaincy as much as Root or Cooks was.
**Draft**
Batsman, even the best, go through good and bad periods of form. Nearly every batsman that has played cricket has had a extreme highs and lows throughout their careers. Dips in form can just be a player regressing to their mean, which for good players can hover from 45 to 50, or it can be an indication towards a greater underlying issue. Players that one year score runs in loads of boats, the next year can struggle to get the ball to the boundary. Compounded with the fact that cricket is such a mentally intensive sport, where fine margins can make the difference between a successful inning and one that ends prematurely, it is very easy for batsman to get into ruts, fed by negative feedback loops, where a run of low scores can result in a batsman negatively altering their technique in the hope that 'trying something new' will bring back the spark in their batting that now plagues them. Ruts, or strings of bad for can sometimes be just a minor change in technique that has gone unnoticed. This can usaully be ammended through brute force methods, such as Sachin, when he stoicly willed himself to a drought ending 241 in Sydney. Sometimes the loss of form comes as a result of another physical. slowing reactions. Cricket, batting especially, is a very reaction based sport, so when 'the eyes go', a batsman's technique, that was once bulletproof, starts to see cracks jumping in at the foundations. This is evident with a number of batsman in test cricket, many of the times, their output tends to decline before they are either forced into retirement or dropped. We can see this clearly with batsman such as Ross Taylor, you can see a clear decline in his performance over the end of their career, but because of their historically good performances for their country, and in general, their establishement as a 'legend' of the countries batting departement, they are kept in the team long after their peak as a player. Is this the case with Kohli however? Has it been the start of the end for Kohli? Though I may be tempted to say, yes, I do not think the Ross Taylor theory really applies with Kohli. 1. Because Kohli still churned out performances during this period in the limited overs formats, where he still kept (though not to his personal mark) a very high standard of play (culminating in THIS shot down the ground a few months ago, but I digress), and 2. Because I think a much more pertinent issue has been keeping Kohli quiet.

### The Pressure Bubble

**Montage of players saying they wish they took a step back**

Whenever you hear interviews of players that have come out of form, one of the most common things that are said are "I wish I had taken a step back rather than overthinking the issue". Professional athletes in general always face immense expectation and pressure to perform and make split-second decisions that could end up defining their career. Nowhere is this more excentuated then in batting. When a batsman faces a delivery, they have a split second to make a potentially inning defining decision, play at the ball, or leave it? Is the ball swinging or not? Is it pitched up, or on a good length? With so many decisions that need to be made in a fraction of a second, if there is any doubt in what a batsman needs to do, then they will inevitibly end up making the wront decision, spelling out the and of their innings. It is clear then, how much of a mental exercise batting can really be. When everything is going well and a batsman is in form, these decisions come easy, but after a string of potential low scores, a batsman can start to doubt if their judgement of shot is actually the right one, and these split seconds of doubt are the difference between the ball hitting the middle of the bat, or flying off the edge into the hands of a waiting slip cordon. Batting is even more agonizing than this though, because you only have one change to make an impression in every innings, and if you get out, the mental stress associated with watching others bat seemingly easily while you are stuck on the outside looking in is extrememly taxing mentally. Batting is perfectly tuned to creating these negative (and positive) mental feedback loops and so, when a batsman is down, it can be extremely difficult for them to get back up. 

There have been quite a few cases of this in the recent past. First we had Alistair Cook, who had an amazingly long period of time, where getting out cheaply was almost a certainty, us as fans merely tried to predict if his dismissals would be on ball 1 of his innings or ball 20. I remember watching Cook bat in this period, and almost thinking Cook was hoping to face a good ball so that his inevetible dismissal would at least seem like it was because of the bowlers brilliance. A similar trend has been seen more recently in Joe Root and also Steven Smith, both of whom have now come out of their slumps and are once again at their best. What's common among all these example? Well in the case of Joe Root and Cook specifically, both of them was the captian of the nation at the time, but not only that, they also were the best and most consistent batsman on their respective teams, and so, on top of the burden of the captaincy, Root and Cook both faced the issue that if they did not do well individualy, the team also tended not to do well, and the media were relentless in pointing this out. No matter how great a batsman might be, this pressure muddles the mind and results in the same sort of slow decision making that we see affect batsman at the end of their careers. In the case of Steve Smith, we can see that his form took a reasonable hit on the return summer after his two year ban due to ball tampering. Coincidentally, this was the exact same period of time when the world shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with Australia being one of the countries most significantly hit by lockdown restrictions. Though it is a discussion for another time, Steve Smith's unorthadox technique might actually be one that was slightly exposed as his reactions have slowed due to age. Recently he has made a few technical adjustments to make his game a bit more orthodox, and it seems to have made an effect on his run scoring output, with a string of good scores from his last few innings in both tests and ODIs. 

To make the issue worse for Kohli, he is Indian, and the fact that cricket is practically a religion in this part of the world, where players are worshipped when doing well, or effigies burned when performances dont go their way, the added burden of a billion expectations and media attention doesn't help at all. If we look at players with the longest 'end-of-career slumps' we see that many Indian 'legends' have this issue such as, Sachin, Ganguly, Sehwag. The burden of pressure and expectations of fans definitely doesnt help any of the players that are going through a gut of form to have enough time away from the limelight to clear out their minds and revitalize their game. 

Kohli's slump therefore seems to be similar

Sometimes the period of bad runs is simply a case of bad luck, where a player may be looking great, but seems to just be getting in a string of good balls. In both these cases though, a players mental strength is of utmost importance. In Sachin's innings, to have the mental strength to refuse to play an sort of cover-drive at all is something of near legend. Furthermore, to stick to your method in a period of bad-luck, and hold out for the opportunity to be able to make the most of a start, whenever you get one, also takes immense self belief and mental fortitude. In such situations, applied pressure from external sources is never beneficial.

### Too many Games

Even to a player as strong as Kohli mentally, this is not a good postion to be in, especially when batting, where even the slightist offput of mental phsyche often results in less than optimum performance for a majority of batsman. Mental fatigue can play a significant role in a player's performance, and compound the media attention and expectation with the number of games that Kohli still plays internationally, this can start to take quite a toll. Kohli, out of the Fab 4 for example, is the only consistent all format player and arguably has the highest expectations from the team in every format he plays. Furthermore, until last year, Kohli played and even captained every game in the IPL, ammassing a total of X games, more than anyone else in that same period. This is not to mention that over the decade of 2022, Kohli has played more international days of cricket than any other player. All of these high pressure environments add up over time, and this was not only evident to see in Kohli's IPL 2022, where the manner of his dismissals was ungainly and uncharacteristic, but also seemingly from his teammates and coaches, who have, in many articles, insisted that Kohli take time away from the game to refresh.

The most telling sign of the deteriorating mentality however, is Kohli himself. Considering his outwar display of being a complete cricket and training obsessive, saying things such as "I was not enjoying practice or training" should have been a telltale sign that Kohli had long since reached his boiling point and simmered over. It seems that the 6-weeks kohli took off before the Asia Cup has done a lot of refresh his mental capacity for the game, finally showing signs of improvement and flashes of the old Kohli, scoring his 71st international century, and also a match winning knowck of the ages against Pakistan in the World Cup, but going forward, to maintain the high level of intensity that almost seems a requirement of the game, Kohli must step back from areas of the game that are not as important. Sections of the IPL, some inconsequential bilateral series, and really save his energy for gloabl tournaments and test cricket, in which Kohli has a continueing desire to perform well for his country and still has a lot to offer. Cricket has gone through a mental revolution of sorts, with many players taking time away from the sport and coming back rejuvinated, and maybe this is something that Kohli will need to continue to build into his schedule going forward to take care of the mental fatigue that seems to have creeped into his game.


### What Next

Virat Kohli's personality has always been about confidence and intensity, that is just how he plays the game. But over time, keeping up this level intensity can be difficult. In cricket especially, in recent years there has definitely been a sort of mental revolution, there are an increasing number of players that are taking time away from the game for mental health sake, and considering the pressures that the pandemic and bio-bubbles have put onto players, a time away from the game has probably been an important step 
### Theres more to life than cricket

### Conclusion

1. Kohli cover drive causing issues, data wise we can see the the frequency of shots played is the same, but we then need to analyse if the technique was off, which it was, he started going back to his 'old' way of playing the cover drive, which was causing him to edge the ball, furthermore, Kohli plays very far from his body always. This is another reason that he edges so many cover drives. The cover drive is NOT causing issues, we can see using cover drive runs scored, percentage of shots played with cover drives, etc, that Kohli is not really playing cover drives more or less and is actually having a hard time or scoring runs in general because he scoring slower and playing more dot balls. Therefore he is getting bogged down and as a result may be playing more rash shots/just not scoring as much. He still is facing a lot of balls, but just not getting any flow to his innings, which is resulting in him not really going on and making any big scores from the starts that he is getting. 

2. Kohli volume of cricket finally caught up with him, and this resulted in him not getting a break at all, we can use anecdotes from other cricketers about burnout in the game, as well as the fact that once Kohli took an extended time off before the Asia Cup and did not train, then he started to play better once more.

3. Kohli is having an end of career slump in test matches, this is indicitive of his age, and though it does not happen to other 'great' batsman, it seems that Indian batsman, especially captains, seems to have this issue, we can see that Ganguly, Tendulkar, VVS, they all had slumps towards the backend of their careers that they never recovered from, find the average age of these slumps and then we can try to evaluate if the same thing is happening with Kohli. We can then also reference some articles from Cricinfo that explored form vs class, and analysed if Kohli's form was in fact permanent or just temporary.

4. 
